

Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]



Report text available as:

TXT

PDF
                (387KB)
                                Â 
                
(PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.)

Tip
?






117th Congress   }                                     {    Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session      }                                     {    117-372

======================================================================



 
 TO AMEND THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994 TO 
 ESTABLISH AN AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
           CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

 June 15, 2022.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
              State of the Union and ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. David Scott of Georgia, from the Committee on Agriculture, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 7675]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Agriculture, to whom was referred the bill 
(H.R. 7675) to amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force, and for other purposes, having considered the same, 
reports favorably thereon with an amendment and recommends that 
the bill as amended do pass.
    The amendment is as follows:
  Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
following:

SECTION 1. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6931 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in the 
Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
Crisis Response Task Force (in this section referred to as the `Task 
Force').
  ``(b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the following:
          ``(1) Help to promote the leadership of the United States 
        with respect to the stability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain.
          ``(2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, labor 
        organizations, the governments of countries that are allies or 
        key international partners of the United States, States or 
        political subdivisions thereof, and Tribal governments in order 
        to--
                  ``(A) promote the resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain; and
                  ``(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to shocks to 
                the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply chain.
          ``(4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, domestic 
        producers, and domestic enterprises in the United States and in 
        countries that are allies or key international partners.
          ``(5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and 
        responding to shocks to the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          ``(6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive wages in 
        the United States agricultural and food system sector.
          ``(7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to carry 
        out the functions described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
  ``(c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special Advisor on 
Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this section, referred 
to as the `Special Advisor') who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  ``(d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          ``(1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, 
        shall conduct an evaluation of the stability and reliability of 
        the agriculture and food system supply chain. The evaluation 
        shall focus on the items listed in subsection (b).
          ``(2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this section, the Special Advisor 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  ``(A) An evaluation of--
                          ``(i) the strengths of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(ii) the weaknesses of the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain;
                          ``(iii) current and potential future critical 
                        bottlenecks in the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain, including transportation 
                        bottlenecks in the distribution of agricultural 
                        inputs, processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          ``(iv) workforce challenges and opportunities 
                        in the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          ``(v) the overall stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  ``(B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and local laws 
                and regulations that--
                          ``(i) increase the stability and reliability 
                        of the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; or
                          ``(ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply chain.
                  ``(C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the agriculture and 
                food system supply chain, including recommendations 
                that address challenges identified under paragraph (1) 
                and that also address--
                          ``(i) long-term strategies;
                          ``(ii) industry best practices;
                          ``(iii) risk-mitigation actions to prevent 
                        future bottlenecks and vulnerabilities at all 
                        levels of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain; and
                          ``(iv) legislative and regulatory actions 
                        that would positively impact the security and 
                        resilience of the agriculture and food system 
                        supply chain.
  ``(e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the earlier 
of--
          ``(1) the date on which the report required by subsection (d) 
        is submitted; or
          ``(2) September 30, 2023.''.
  (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 296(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
          ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
        Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in accordance with 
        section 229.''.

                           Brief Explanation

    H.R. 7675 would amend the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Task Force 
would be responsible for evaluating the stability and 
reliability of the agriculture and food system as well as 
identifying specific recommendations to improve the security, 
safety and resilience of the supply chain. The Task Force would 
be required to submit a report detailing its work and 
recommendations to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
enactment of the bill. The Task Force would also wind down 
after the earlier of September 30, 2023, or submission of the 
report to Congress. This bill is additive to complimentary 
ongoing and planned programs that the Department of Agriculture 
is carrying out under existing authorities and funding. The 
Committee's intent behind passage of this bill is in no way 
intended to limit or pause those programs and efforts.

                    Purpose and Need for Legislation

    The Novel Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic altered 
nearly every facet of daily life and rapidly and dramatically 
transformed how food and agricultural products are consumed 
and, by necessity, how they are produced and delivered. As 
consumers panic-bought food at the retail level and demand 
shifted away from commercial, institutional, and restaurant 
purchasing, the entire food supply chain struggled to adjust to 
accommodate the new market conditions. These changes stressed 
many supply chains, and an uneven recovery that continues to 
disrupt supply chains has been exacerbated by Russia's war 
against Ukraine. The pandemic amplified the importance of 
having a durable and adaptable supply chain. While mass food 
shortages have been avoided in the United States, the entire 
supply chain is encountering raw material shortages, higher 
costs of production, higher prices for goods, delays, and an 
inability to predict demand for operational planning. This 
phenomenon is being experienced in most countries and sectors 
at varying scales.
    Global supply chain disruptions have led to increases in 
the cost of food and fuel in the United States. The other 
factors that play into higher prices are the increased costs of 
shipping and labor, which get passed through onto consumers, 
and changes in consumption dynamics. This confluence of 
challenges has led to inflation--where the purchasing power of 
the dollar is reduced relative to the cost of goods.
    On February 24, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 
14017 on ``America's Supply Chains,'' directing a whole-of-
government approach to assessing vulnerabilities in, and 
strengthening the resilience of, critical supply chains. The 
President also established a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task 
Force led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and 
Agriculture.
    Such complex problems require a comprehensive approach from 
USDA to develop solutions. H.R. 7675 establishes a USDA 
taskforce and special advisor that would coordinate various 
agency equities dealing with supply chain to ensure a 
comprehensive approach. In addition to monitoring and 
evaluating the food and agriculture supply chain's strength, 
weaknesses, and resilience, the Task Force would liaise with 
private-sector stakeholders and the Federal Government 
interagency. It would also facilitate Congressional oversight 
and cooperation by requiring the taskforce to report out to 
Congress on evaluation findings and recommendations. In short, 
this Task Force would help streamline and augment existing 
supply chain efforts at USDA and hold the Department 
accountable for these activities.

H.R. 7675, To amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 
    1994 To Establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
   Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for Other Purposes


                           Section-by-Section


Section 1. Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain Resilience and 
        Crisis Response Task Force

    Section 1 amends the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994, to establish an Agricultural and 
Food System Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task 
Force in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
    The goals of the task force are to promote stability and 
resiliency within agriculture and food system supply chains, as 
well as ensure availability of goods and inputs from domestic 
producers and key allies of the United States.
    The task force shall engage in a government-wide approach, 
and in collaboration with the private-sector, monitor the 
resilience, diversity, security and strength of the food and 
agriculture supply chain, assist the Federal Government in 
preparing for and responding to shocks, and support the 
creation of jobs with competitive wages in the U.S. agriculture 
and food sector.
    A Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response, appointed by the Secretary, will head the task force. 
The task force shall coordinate Executive Branch actions to 
carry out these functions.
    The Special Advisor is required to conduct an evaluation of 
the stability and reliability of the food system and supply 
chain and submit a report on the food system's strengths and 
weaknesses, an evaluation of related current laws and 
regulations, and recommendations to address supply chain 
challenges to Congress no later than 270 days after the 
implementation of this statute.

                        Committee Consideration


                               I. HEARING

    The Committee on Agriculture held one hearing in the 117th 
Congress in anticipation of related supply chain legislation.
    On November 3, 2021, the full Committee on Agriculture held 
a hearing entitled ``The Immediate Challenges to our Nation's 
Food Supply Chain'' where the following witnesses testified on 
supply chain issues, which are addressed, in part in H.R. 7675:
           Mr. Jon Schwalls, Executive Officer, 
        Southern Valley Fruit and Vegetable, Inc., on behalf of 
        Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Norman 
        Park, GA
           Mr. Ed Cinco, Director of Purchasing, 
        Schwebel's Baking Company, on behalf of the American 
        Bakers Association, Youngstown, OH
           Mr. Greg Ferrara, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, National Grocers Association, 
        Washington, D.C.
           Mr. Mike Durkin, President and Chief 
        Executive Officer, Leprino Foods Company, on behalf of 
        International Dairy Foods Association, Denver, CO
           Mr. Jon Samson, Vice President of 
        Conferences and Executive Director, Agricultural & Food 
        Transporters Conference, American Trucking Association, 
        Arlington, VA
           Mr. Rod Wells, Chief Supply Chain Officer, 
        GROWMARK, Inc., on behalf of the Agricultural Retailers 
        Association, Bloomington, IL
    This hearing examined the broad and complex challenges 
facing the food and agriculture supply chain. Witnesses offered 
perspectives on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
economy, transportation and logistics, the workforce, farm-
level production challenges such as rising input costs, 
ingredient, and raw material sourcing.

                           II. FULL COMMITTEE

    On May 17, 2022, the Committee on Agriculture met pursuant 
to notice, with a quorum present, to consider H.R. 7675, To 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes. Chairman Scott made an opening statement as did 
Ranking Member Thompson. Chairman Scott requested other Members 
submit their opening statements for the record. Without 
objection, H.R. 7675 was placed before the Committee for 
consideration, a first reading of the bill was waived. The bill 
was considered en bloc.
    Discussion occurred and counsel for the Committee answered 
Member questions. After discussion, Chairman Scott made a 
single motion for unanimous consent to adopt and order 
favorably reported H.R. 7675, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute as filed by Ms. Craig. The motion for unanimous 
consent was adopted without objection.
    At the conclusion of the meeting, Chairman Scott advised 
Members that pursuant to the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, Members had until May 20 at 12:00 p.m. to file 
any supplemental, additional, dissenting, or minority views 
with the Committee. Without objection, staff was given 
permission to make any necessary technical, clarifying, or 
conforming changes to reflect the intent of the Committee. 
Chairman Scott thanked all the Members and adjourned the 
meeting.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, H.R. 7675 was reported by unanimous consent 
with a majority quorum present.

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Direction of the Congressional 
Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

            Cost of Legislation and Congressional Budget Act

    The provisions of clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives and section 308(a)(1) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to estimates of new 
budget authority, new spending authority, new credit authority, 
or increased or decreased revenues or tax expenditures) are not 
considered applicable. The estimate and comparison required to 
be prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
under clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives and sections 402 and 423 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 submitted to the Committee prior to the 
filing of this report are as follows:

                                     U.S. Congress,
                                    Congress Budget Office,
                                      Washington, DC, May 27, 2022.
Hon. David Scott,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 7675, a bill to 
amend the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 
to establish an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force, and for other 
purposes.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Tiffany 
Arthur.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.


	    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    H.R. 7675 would establish a task force in the Department of 
Agriculture to evaluate the stability and reliability of the 
nation's agriculture and food system supply chain. Under the 
bill, the Secretary of Agriculture would appoint a special 
advisor to head the task force and consult with the Secretaries 
of Commerce and Transportation as part of the evaluation. The 
bill also would require the advisor to report the task force's 
findings to the Congress and recommend ways to improve the 
supply chain's safety, security, and resilience. The task 
force's authority would end on September 30, 2023.
    Using information about the costs of similar activities, 
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than 
$500,000; any spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Tiffany Arthur. 
The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy 
Director of Budget Analysis.

                   Constitutional Authority Statement

    The Committee finds the Constitutional authority for this 
legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 18, that grants 
Congress the power to make all laws necessary and proper for 
carrying out the powers vested by Congress in the consideration 
of the United States or in any department or officer thereof. 
The Committee further finds the Constitutional authority for 
this legislation in Article I, section 8, clause 3, that grants 
Congress the authority to regulate foreign and interstate 
commerce.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the House of 
Representatives, the performance goals and objectives of this 
measure are to strengthen the agriculture and food system 
supply chain and reduce the associated costs of supply chain 
disruptions for American farmers, ranchers, and consumers.

                        Committee Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee report incorporates the 
cost estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office pursuant to sections 402 and 423 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                      Advisory Committee Statement

    No advisory committee within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act was created by this 
legislation.

                Applicability to the Legislative Branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act (Public Law 
104-1).

                       Federal Mandates Statement

    The Committee adopted as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act (Public Law 104-4).

                           Earmark Statement

    This measure does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in 
clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI of the House of 
Representatives.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    This measure does not establish or reauthorize a program of 
the Federal Government known to be duplicative of another 
Federal program, a program that was included in any report from 
Government Accountability Office to Congress pursuant to 
section 21 of Public Law 111-139, or a program related to a 
program in the most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic 
Assistance.

                   Disclosure of Directed Rulemakings

    The Committee does not believe that the legislation directs 
an Executive Branch official to conduct any specific rule 
making proceedings within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 551.

         Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported

  In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by 
the bill, as reported, are shown as follows (new matter is 
printed in italics and existing law in which no change is 
proposed is shown in roman):

          DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION ACT OF 1994




           *       *       *       *       *       *       *
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE REORGANIZATION

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle B--Farm Production and Conservation

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 229. AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SYSTEM SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND 
                    CRISIS RESPONSE TASK FORCE.

  (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish in 
the Department an Agricultural and Food System Supply Chain 
Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force (in this section 
referred to as the ``Task Force'').
  (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be the 
following:
          (1) Help to promote the leadership of the United 
        States with respect to the stability of the agriculture 
        and food system supply chain.
          (2) Encourage a Government-wide approach through 
        partnerships and collaboration with the private sector, 
        labor organizations, the governments of countries that 
        are allies or key international partners of the United 
        States, States or political subdivisions thereof, and 
        Tribal governments in order to--
                  (A) promote the resilience of the agriculture 
                and food system supply chain; and
                  (B) identify, prepare for, and respond to 
                shocks to the agricultural and food system 
                supply chain.
          (3) Monitor the resilience, diversity, security, and 
        strength of the agricultural and food system supply 
        chain.
          (4) Support the availability of agricultural and food 
        system supply chain goods for domestic manufacturers, 
        domestic producers, and domestic enterprises in the 
        United States and in countries that are allies or key 
        international partners.
          (5) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for 
        and responding to shocks to the agricultural and food 
        system supply chain.
          (6) Support the creation of jobs with competitive 
        wages in the United States agricultural and food system 
        sector.
          (7) Coordinate executive branch actions necessary to 
        carry out the functions described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
  (c) Special Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis 
Response.--The head of the Task Force shall be the Special 
Advisor on Supply Chain Resilience and Crisis Response (in this 
section, referred to as the ``Special Advisor'') who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
  (d) Agriculture and Food System Supply Chain Evaluation and 
Report.--
          (1) Evaluation.--The Special Advisor, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
        Transportation, shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        stability and reliability of the agriculture and food 
        system supply chain. The evaluation shall focus on the 
        items listed in subsection (b).
          (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
        Special Advisor shall submit to the Committee on 
        Agriculture, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
        a report on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
        (a) that includes the following:
                  (A) An evaluation of--
                          (i) the strengths of the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain;
                          (ii) the weaknesses of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain;
                          (iii) current and potential future 
                        critical bottlenecks in the agriculture 
                        and food system supply chain, including 
                        transportation bottlenecks in the 
                        distribution of agricultural inputs, 
                        processed and unprocessed food and food 
                        input products, and consumer-ready food 
                        products;
                          (iv) workforce challenges and 
                        opportunities in the agriculture and 
                        food system supply chain; and
                          (v) the overall stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain.
                  (B) An evaluation of Federal, State, and 
                local laws and regulations that--
                          (i) increase the stability and 
                        reliability of the agriculture and food 
                        system supply chain; or
                          (ii) decrease or otherwise negatively 
                        impact the stability and reliability of 
                        the agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
                  (C) Specific recommendations to improve the 
                security, safety, and resilience of the 
                agriculture and food system supply chain, 
                including recommendations that address 
                challenges identified under paragraph (1) and 
                that also address--
                          (i) long-term strategies;
                          (ii) industry best practices;
                          (iii) risk-mitigation actions to 
                        prevent future bottlenecks and 
                        vulnerabilities at all levels of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain; and
                          (iv) legislative and regulatory 
                        actions that would positively impact 
                        the security and resilience of the 
                        agriculture and food system supply 
                        chain.
  (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate on the 
earlier of--
          (1) the date on which the report required by 
        subsection (d) is submitted; or
          (2) September 30, 2023.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


Subtitle K--Miscellaneous Reorganization Provisions

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


SEC. 296. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

  (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the authority 
delegated to the Secretary by this title to reorganize the 
Department shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
  (b) Functions.--Subsection (a) shall not affect:
          (1) The authority of the Secretary to continue to 
        carry out a function that the Secretary performs on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
          (2) The authority delegated to the Secretary under 
        Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.; 7 
        U.S.C. 2201 note).
          (3) The authority of an agency, office, officer, or 
        employee of the Department to continue to perform all 
        functions delegated or assigned to the entity or person 
        as of that termination date.
          (4) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the position of Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs under 
        section 285.
          (5) The authority of the Secretary to establish 
        within the Department the position of Assistant 
        Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights, and delegate 
        duties to the Assistant Secretary, under section 218.
          (6) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department, under section 251--
                  (A) the position of Under Secretary of 
                Agriculture for Research, Education, and 
                Economics;
                  (B) the Office of the Chief Scientist; and
                  (C) the National Institute of Food and 
                Agriculture.
          (7) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Office of Advocacy and Outreach in 
        accordance with section 226B.
          (8) The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        amendments made to this title by the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014.
          (9) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by section 772 of the 
        Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2018.
          (10) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this title by the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018.
          (11) The authority of the Secretary to establish in 
        the Department the Agricultural and Food System Supply 
        Chain Resilience and Crisis Response Task Force in 
        accordance with section 229.

           *       *       *       *       *       *       *


                                  [all]

